scripts/11-validation-resources/03.md, before:

# Day 1: Afternoon

## Validation

- Basically same as before
- Copy across into API
- Authenticate to true
- Update API controller

## Resources

- Don't want to return all of the data
- `artisan make:resource API\\ArticleResource`
- Update the `toArray()` method: `id`, `title`, `article`
- Add `use App\Http\Resources\API\ArticleResource` to `Articles`
- Add it to responses
- Don't need full article when listing all of them
- `artisan make:resource API\\ArticleListResource`
- Update the `toArray()` method: `id`, `title`
- Add `use App\Http\Resources\API\ArticleListResource`
- Add `::collection()` to `index()`


## CORS

- Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
- Add `Origin: homestead.test` header
    - Should get `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header back
- `composer require fruitcake/laravel-cors`
- Publish `php artisan vendor:publish --tag="cors"`
- Add middleware to `app/Http/Kernel.php`:

    ```php
    protected $middleware = [
      // ...other middleware...
      \Fruitcake\Cors\HandleCors::class,
    ];
    ```

- Update `config/cors.php`:

    ```php
    'paths' => ['api/*'],
    ```

Commit message:

scripts: update CORS script for slightly better demonstration

scripts/11-validation-resources/03.md, after:

# Day 1: Afternoon

## Validation

- Basically same as before
- Copy across into API
- Authenticate to true
- Update API controller

## Resources

- Don't want to return all of the data
- `artisan make:resource API\\ArticleResource`
- Update the `toArray()` method: `id`, `title`, `article`
- Add `use App\Http\Resources\API\ArticleResource` to `Articles`
- Add it to responses
- Don't need full article when listing all of them
- `artisan make:resource API\\ArticleListResource`
- Update the `toArray()` method: `id`, `title`
- Add `use App\Http\Resources\API\ArticleListResource`
- Add `::collection()` to `index()`


## CORS

- Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
    - Stops malicious websites requesting data from APIs they shouldn't have access to
    - Only affects API requests from the browser
    - Allows browsers to make API requests – won't work without it
- Built in to Laravel since 7.0
    - Can configure in `config/cors.php` – demonstrate allowed paths
- Browser sends an `OPTIONS` request first
    - Expects to get back a header
- Demo: add `Origin: homestead.test` header in Postman
    - Should get `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header back
    - Without it browser won't make the request
