challenges/02/09.md, before:

# Migrations: adding columns (fields) later

1. We want to add a new fields to the existing `animals` table, so we need a new migration to do that
    
    `artisan make:migration modify_animals_table`

1. In the new migration file add new fields for:
    - `weight`: think about how we might store units
    - `height`: again, think about how we might store units

    You'll need to use a slightly different structure here for your `up` method:

    ```php
    Schema::table('animals', function (Blueprint $table) {
        $table->string('new field name', 50);
    });
    ```

    For the `down` method you'll want to remove the columns again:

    ```php
    Schema::table('animals', function (Blueprint $table) {
        $table->dropColumn('field to remove');
    });
    ```

1. Run the migration with `artisan migrate`

1. use `mysql -u root -psecret` and ```USE `homestead`;``` ```SHOW TABLES;``` to prove its worked

1. Test the rollback with `artisan migrate:rollback` or `artisan migrate:rollback --step=1` and then `artisan migrate` again to re-run

Commit message:

fix typos, better mysql prompt accesses, using migrate:status

challenges/02/09.md, after:

# Migrations: adding columns (fields) later

1. We want to add a new fields to the existing `animals` table, so we need a new migration to do that
    
    `artisan make:migration modify_animals_table`

1. In the new migration file add new fields for:
    - `weight`: think about how we might store units
    - `height`: again, think about how we might store units

    You'll need to use a slightly different structure here for your `up` method:

    ```php
    Schema::table('animals', function (Blueprint $table) {
        $table->string('new field name', 50);
    });
    ```

    For the `down` method you'll want to remove the columns again:

    ```php
    Schema::table('animals', function (Blueprint $table) {
        $table->dropColumn('field to remove');
    });
    ```

1. Run `artisan migrate:status` in your vagrant box (inside `~/code`) to see which migrations have been run.

1. Run the migration with `artisan migrate`

1. Run `artisan migrate:status` again, see the difference

1. use `mysql` and ```USE `homestead`;``` ```SHOW TABLES;``` to prove its worked

1. Test the rollback with `artisan migrate:rollback` or `artisan migrate:rollback --step=1` and then `artisan migrate` again to re-run
